Project CEA
Civic Engagement APP
The problem 

People are not participating in democracy
People are apathetic
People are desensitized and have short memories
There is information overload
Rampant misinformation 
Gaming of systems - forums, facebook
Distrust of mainstream media
Not relevant locally
Isolated local media outlets which

The Opportunity
People are reaching for news sources that are created by amateurs, commentators, youtube personalities as a prefered source
They are actively seeking sources they like, supporting it through views, merch purchases or patreon model

The idea -
A Civic / Community engagement App with the following functionality:
Online identity verification (that doesnt use legal docs) & civic ranking
WHAT - unique blockchain based id assigned to an individual. 
HOW - 
the id can be strengthened by attaching legal docs/ biometrics - what you attach is up to you, but different parties accepting this id will have their own requirement of how strong the id needs to be.
Civic ranking is like a reputation system. Higher the rank allows for freedom and more responsibilities. To earn it, one must fulfill responsibilities like flagging content, editorials, proposing successful stories, updating contact information for politicians, etc….
WHY -
 To mitigate system gaming and misinformation by leaving a paper trail without exposing any legal documents /information
Community supported journalism
WHAT  - allows people to create a pot for issues that they want to shed light on. People belonging to the community / those who are close to the issue / anyone can contribute to the pot. Once it reaches hits a minimum amount it can be made open to the public for investigation
HOW - The submitted story can be edited by community members with a high enough civic ranking.
WHY -People have a distrust of mainstream media and are seeking alternatives. By introducing a direct payment model, we introduce trust devoid of adverts and external funders that causes conflicts of interest. Secondly community editing is akin to wikipedia with the added scrutiny of civic ranking
5Causes news aggregation
WHAT - Everyone person must take on at least causes and follow stories in long form journalism
HOW - User picks like keywords or causes they are passionate about.  At least 3 of their own(example -  immigration, midterm, the fishing industry, etc) One that is assigned by default (something that affects everyone - example food sustainability, environment) and one cause where others may need your support
News stories are collated and arranged by timeline
WHY- This allows for the people to focus on limited things and follow through with the story to understand the bigger picture and monitor outcome. This leads to accountability
Politician tracking and consensus
WHAT - Know who your local, state and federal representative is and see if their vote matches yours. Also allows for influencing policy at the planning and voting stage !!!
HOW - The ID allows for attaching your location, based of which we pull representative information off the internet. We scrape voting history
For consensus we can create a live poll of verified users of the same community or compare to historical data
WHY -  accountability of elected representatives matters. It helps with accurate portrayal during election cycles and people are less prone to news bias
Misinformation and trolling mitigation
WHAT - Multiple methods can be used for casting doubt, mischaracterize, color opinion. An fixed id and civic ranking will minimize these platforms
How - banning and limited access
WHY - self explanatory
[FUTURE] -  crowd counting
[FUTURE] - election vote tracking
[FUTURE] - OPEN constitution
