1. Ad hominems
Ad hominems are a fallacy of relevance where someone rejects or criticizes another person’s view on the basis of personal characteristics, background, physical appearance, or other features irrelevant to the argument at issue.

2. Appeal to pity
Opposite to Ad hominems such that they try to incite emotion leeway while downplaying evidence

3. Straw Man
Straw man fallacies are a cheap and easy way to make one’s position look stronger than it is, by mischaracterizing an opponents positions on a 'life less, harmless, scarescrow' like point that the opponent had no intention of defending


4.Appeal to Ignorance 
This point omits clear evidence or uses humans natural state of not knowing everything. It is a cheap way to strengthen your argument, especially when dealing with scientific information.


5.black-and-white fallacy
This fallacy tries to simplify an argument on having just two sides when there are clearly more points to be considered. It is a way of not dealing with complexity in favor of ones own simplistic arguments

6. Slippery Slope
The slippery slope fallacy, however, suggests that unlikely or ridiculous outcomes are likely when there’s just not enough evidence to think so. "If you dont get build my wall, all your wife and kids will get raped!!" 

7.Circular Argument
This fallacy says that a cause and outcome are interchangable. "The politician is honest becuase he says he is honest and that is all the evidence I need"


8.Red Herring
A “red herring” is a distraction from the argument typically with some sentiment that seems to be relevant but isn’t really on-topic.

8."You too" 
This fallacy tries to diminish personal responsibility by pointing out hypocrisy in the opponent. 

9. Logical 
This fallacy is any breakdown in logic in the cause and effect chain of reasoning

10.Sunk Cost
When an idea or entity is too big to fail on account of investments already made in them, without considering the future costs. 


11. Appeal to authority 
Driving an argument with authoratitive accounts only while avoiding testable hypothesis or contrary evidence